Get Well: Add "Getting Started with Flex Gateway" doc (#165)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-gateway-getting-started.adoc

endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

The goal of this tutorial is to quickly get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway. Using Docker, the tutorial describes how to install, register, and run Flex Gateway in Connected Mode. Additionally, the tutorial describes how to publish an API that is secured with a basic authentication policy.

== Before You Begin

Before getting started with Flex Gateway, ensure that you have:

* A username and password for your Anypoint Platform organization. If you don’t have Anypoint Platform yet, https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/signup[create a Trial organization^] on Anypoint Platform.

* A machine with an x86 processor. M1 and M2 processors are not supported.

* A Docker installation. See https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/[Docker Desktop^] for an example.

== Install Flex Gateway

> To install the Flex Gateway Docker image, run the following command in a terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Flex Gateway Docker image, run the following command in a terminal window:
```

Author: Fixed

[source,ssh]
----
docker pull mulesoft/flex-gateway:latest
----

[NOTE]
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command.

== Register Flex Gateway

> . Create a new directory by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a new directory:
```

Author: Fixed

+
[source,ssh]
----
mkdir flex-config
----

> . Navigate to the new directory by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to the new directory:
```

Author: Fixed

+
[source,ssh]
----
cd flex-config
----

. Log in to https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/[Anypoint Platform^] with your Anypoint username and password.
. Select *Runtime Manager*.
. Click on the *Flex Gateways* tab in the side navigation panel.
. Click *Add Gateway*.
. Select *Docker*.

> . Copy the code block in the *Register your gateway* section. The code block will contain your unique organization ID and token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Copy the code block in the *Register your gateway* section. The code block contains your unique organization ID and token.
```

Author: Fixed

+

> The following screenshot of the *Add a Flex Gateway* page highlights the code block that should be copied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following screenshot of the *Add a Flex Gateway* page highlights the code block to copy:
```

Author: Fixed

+

> image::gateway-quickstart-add-gateway.png["Screenshot of 'Add a Flex Gateway'",width=90%]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::gateway-quickstart-add-gateway.png["Add a Flex Gateway page with selected code block to copy",width=90%]
```

Reviewer: I believe we don't want to use "screenshot" in the alt text.

Author: Fixed

. Run the copied code block in your terminal window, making sure to replace `<gateway-name>` with a name, such as `my-gw`.
+
[NOTE]
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command.

. Select *Flex Gateways* in the side navigation panel.
+
Your registered Flex Gateway now appears in the list of gateways.

== Run Flex Gateway

> To run Flex Gateway, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Flex Gateway, enter the following in a terminal window:
```

Author: Hmm, I think I see what you're getting at. But they're not just entering text; they're also running the command.

Maybe:
"To run Flex Gateway, execute the following in a terminal window"?

Author: "Run" it is! :)

[source,ssh]
----
docker run --rm \
  -v "$(pwd)":/usr/local/share/mulesoft/flex-gateway/conf.d \
  -p 8081:8081 \
  mulesoft/flex-gateway
----

[NOTE]
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command.

A new Flex Gateway instance is now running in your terminal window.

== Publish a Simple API

. Select *API Manager* from the Anypoint Platform menu.

> . Click *Add API*, followed by *Add new API*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Add API*, followed by *Add new API*:
```

Author: Fixed

+

> image::gateway-quickstart-add-new-api.png["Screenshot of 'Add new API'",width=35%]

Reviewer: see prev about alt text

Author: Fixed

. In the *Add API* page, select *Flex Gateway* as your runtime.
. Select your registered gateway in the *Select a gateway* section.
. Click *Next*.
+

> The following screenshot of the *Add API* page highlights the specified options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following screenshot of the *Add API* page highlights the specified options:
```

Reviewer: Kim's guidance was always introduce an image with a colon (:)

Author: Fixed

+
image::gateway-quickstart-select-gateway-for-api.png["Screenshot of 'Select Gateway for API'",width=100%]

. Click *Create New API*.
. Specify an API name and select *HTTP API* as the asset type.
. Click *Next*.

> . In the *Endpoint* page, enter the following for *Implementation URI*:

Reviewer: is this a field? Maybe enter xx in the xx field?

Author: Fixed

+
[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----

> . For *Port*, enter `8081`.

Reviewer: same as 102

Author: Fixed

. Click *Next*.
+
// The following screenshot of the *Endpoint* page highlights the specified options.
// +
// image::gateway-quickstart-select-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=100%]

. Click *Save & Deploy*.
+

> Inside the gateway instance Docker container, all HTTP requests made to `localhost` on port `8081` will now be proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the gateway instance Docker container, all HTTP requests made to `localhost` on port `8081` are now proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
```

Reviewer: I assume it's ok to use proxy as a verb :>

Author: Fixed

. To test the API Instance, run the following command in a new terminal window:
+
[source,ssh]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" --request GET 'http://localhost:8081/'
----
+

> The command executes a `GET` request to the API Instance, and subsequently prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command executes a `GET` request to the API instance, and then prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success.
```

Author: Fixed. I removed "instance", as it was redundant.

== Secure Your API Using the Basic Authentication Policy

> . While still in *API Manager*, select *API Administration* in the side navigation panel.

Reviewer: Need to check the Style Ref about select "in" or "from"

Author: I checked the guide. It should be "from". I fixed this in a couple of different places.

> . Select the highlighted name of the API Instance created in the previous section.

Reviewer: hmmm. Maybe Instance is a proper noun?

Author: I removed "instance", as it was redundant.

> . Select *Policies* in the side navigation panel.

Reviewer: from?

Author: I checked the guide. It should be "from". I fixed this in a couple of different places.

. In the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.
+

> The following screenshot of the *Policies* page highlights the specified options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following screenshot of the *Policies* page highlights the specified options:
```

Author: Fixed

+

> image::gateway-quickstart-add-policy.png["Screenshot of 'Add Policy'",width=65%]

Reviewer: alt text

Reviewer: I don't think we ever use single quotes.

Author: Fixed

. Select the *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.
. Click *Next*.
. For *User Name*, enter `user`.
. For *User Password*, enter `password`.
. Click *Apply*.
+

> The following screenshot of the *Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy* page highlights the specified options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following screenshot of the *Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy* page highlights the specified options:
```

Author: Fixed

+

> image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Auth Policy'",width=65%]

Reviewer: alt

Author: Fixed

> . To test the API Instance _without_ authentication, run the previous `curl` command:

Reviewer: previous?

Author: Fixed. I replaced "previous" with "following".
